in this video we are going to look at
the testing workflow in terms of theory
we'll discuss why testing is important
and cover the different types of tests
in the practical part we'll implement
the testing part of the CI workflow this
involves setting up a build triggering
Jenkins commit a code change to give up
and see the tests pass or fail let's
start by explaining why testing is
important first of all testing forces
developers to write smaller and more
manageable units of code also because
they need to write a test for it
furthermore tests can be seen as self
documentation and make it easier for new
developers to understand what a piece of
code is supposed to do this is great for
bringing new developers into a large
code base testing also reduces the risk
of introducing bugs and in particular
regression bugs into a software release
and allows to be fairly confident that
the new feature won't break existing
features finally it has been calculated
that unit testing alone contributes to
removing 30% of bugs and fewer bugs
means less boring work for developers
and more time for new features well if I
haven't convinced you that testing is
important I hope that this great cartoon
straight from xkcd slightly revisited
can finally persuade you ok back to
serious things now let's have a look at
the different types of tests this list
is not exhaustive but should cover the
most common kinds of tests one of the
most known is unit testing this is used
to test a single and self-contained unit
of code typically a method of a class or
a function unit tests are often written
by developers who wrote the code in the
first place in order to guarantee that
the code behaves as intended integration
tests test the correct interaction
between different systems or components
for example an integration test checks
that a web application and the database
can community
with each other acceptance tests tested
a feature or a use case is correctly
implemented acceptance tests also known
as user acceptance tests or end-to-end
tests treat the system as a black box as
they provide an input and expect a given
output without caring about how the
output is produced an example is testing
the response of an API call regression
tests test that the bug is fixed and it
won't happen again
regression tests are usually written
after bugs are discovered
but prevent these bugs to surface again
in the future
smoke tests are a subset of tests within
the test suite that are executed before
running more extensive and
time-consuming tests smoke tests are
particularly useful when the whole test
suite takes lots of time to run the set
of running the whole test suite just to
discover at the end that not even the
most fundamental tests are passing these
basic tests are executed first
as smoke tests and only if they pass the
whole test suite is executed afterwards
load test test the system and the
significant load for example testing a
web application and the heavy traffic
similar to load tests are stress tests
the test system to discover its highest
capacity and limits before it breaks and
performance tests the test the overall
performance for example how quickly a
web page is displayed and the normal
conditions
finally security testing tests issues
related to security for example that the
latest software patches have been
applied or that malicious users cannot
inject arbitrary code now let's go back
to the CI workflow we started
implemented in the previous video and
see where testing fits in the game of
life project already contains some tests
there are automatically executed via
maven in the demo I want to show you
what happens when a test fails
how it is reported via Jenkins and what
occurs when the bug is actually fixed
first we set up a bill triggering
Jenkins this allows to monitor changes
in the code base so that the Jenkins job
is executed as soon as a developer
commits new code second we commit a code
change in github in order to see what
happens when things go wrong we commit a
code change that breaks one of the
existing tests the code change in github
triggers the Jenkins job executing a
maven goal here we should see a broken
build because one of the tests fails we
fix the code and commit another code
change and this should fix the belt and
make it pass note that if you are a good
developer you would first run your test
suite locally check if any code or tests
need to be updated make sure that
everything is fine and finally commit
your changes together but in this demo I
want to show you how Jenkins and CI can
help eradicate bad development habits
before we start let's mention a caveat
in the demo we are going to use a pool
build trigger
in other words Jenkins pools kit up
continuously to check if there is a code
change a better and more efficient CI
strategy is to implement the push bill
trigger for example github pushes a
notification to Jenkins only when there
is a code change this is much more
efficient because Jenkins doesn't have
to pull continuously github push build
triggers are implemented via web hooks
but unfortunately I can't show you this
by running jenkins on localhost for web
hooks to work jenkins should be deployed
on a public URL or IP address however if
you want to implement a push build
trigger this link shows you how to do it
finally have a read at this article
written by kohsuke kawaguchi the creator
of jenkins
explaining why pushing is better than
polling and why polling must die
without any further ado let's start the
practical part of this video we go to
Jenkins and reopen the configuration of
the job CI workflow that we created in
the previous video in section build
triggers we take pol SCM this shows a
schedule where to put how often the
Jenkins should pull our source code
management github this is expressed
using the chrome syntax we have seen
before you find some examples by
clicking on the question mark in
schedule we write 5 stars separated by
spaces
this means that github is pulled every
minute this is OK for this demo as I
want to show you results quickly and
note that pulling the source control
management every minute is an expensive
and often unnecessary operation finally
click on save you will see the gate
polling log coming up on the sidebar
menu in here you can see when github was
last pulled by Jenkins
now let's go back to the job
configuration and set up the test
reports maven runs a bunch of tests and
the results of these tests can be fed
into Jenkins so that it is easier to
spot when and which test is failing go
to post build actions click on add post
build action and select publish j-unit
test result report the tests is acuity
via maven use j-unit which is a popular
unit testing framework for java and
their test results are XML files maven
automatically puts test reports in a
default subdirectory name show fire
reports inside the target directory
therefore and the test report xml's we
type star star slash target slash
surefire - reports slash star dot XML
this allows to pick up all the test
report XML files in the default target
directory the two stars at the beginning
are a best practice to find the target
directory regardless how we pull the
code from github finally click on save
we are now going to commit a breaking
change to the code base you can use your
favorite editor to edit the code and
push the change to give up I'm going to
make the changes directly on github as
it is easier to show you which file to
change go to github and head to the game
of life repository that you fork in the
previous video here I'm using my fork
node my username
should be using your own fork in yoga
topic am go to game of life core as RC
main / Java come / wok le o / scheme of
life / domain click on cell dot Java and
on edit this file at the top of the file
we are going to change the symbol to
represent cell status you may remember
from the previous video that the
application shows a live cell with a
star and the dead cell with a minus sign
let's imagine a developer wants to
change the symbol use for representing
live cells from a star to a plus sign in
the code replace the star with the plus
sign
scroll down are the comment to your
commit and commit the changes to github
now let's see what happens in Jenkins
you might need to wait a minute or so to
see the Bell triggering when the build
starts going to the console output and
watch the belt running
the build broke because tests are
failing namely in the game of life core
and the bill stopped without passing the
test face so how do you know which test
is failing you could expect the console
output and find the error but a better
way is to look at the XML reports we set
up via the post build action click on
the build number and you have an
overview of all the failing tests if you
click on one you can see the failing
test and which value is expected the
test reports make the debugging process
much easier now let's fix our code to
make the build pass again we go back to
github edit the sell dog Java file
change the plus sign back to a star at
the comment and commit the change to
github we go back to Jenkins and within
a minute
we should see a new job kicking off
triggered by the code change we go
inside the console output wait until the
end of the build and moving forward a
bit here and our build ends successfully
congratulations the belt is now fixed if
you run the job several times Jenkins
automatically creates some useful stats
at the root of the project for example
you can see here the test result trend
showing you how tests behaved across
several bills this is the end of this
video where we discuss the importance of
testing define the different types of
tests and implement the testing part of
a CI workflow watch the next video where
we'll be setting up the notification
part of the CI workflow